
# Replication Package for: Article Title
## Date

This replication package accompanies Author, Author and Author. (forthcoming). "Article Title". Journal Title. DOI.
<!---
Include as much detail in the article citation as you can.
-->

## Authors

- First Author
- Second Author

<!---
The replication package can have a different set of authors than the article.
-->

## License

[MIT](https://choosealicense.com/licenses/mit/)


# Data availability and provenance statements
### Statement about rights

The author(s) of the manuscript have legitimate access to and permission to use the data used in this manuscript.

### Summary of availability
<!---
pick one
-->

- This paper does not involve analysis of external data (i.e., no data are used or the only data are generated by the authors via simulation in their code).
- All data **are** publicly available.
- Some data **cannot be made** publicly available.
- **No data can be made** publicly available.

### Details on each data source

<!---
rework the relevant examples from below
-->


- The [DATA TYPE] data used to support the findings of this study have been deposited in the [NAME] repository ([DOI or OTHER PERSISTENT IDENTIFIER]). [[1](https://www.hindawi.com/research.data/#statement.templates)]. The data were collected by the authors, and are available under a Creative Commons Non-commercial license.
- Data on National Income and Product Accounts (NIPA) were downloaded from the U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA, 2016). We use Table 30. Data can be downloaded from https://apps.bea.gov/regional/downloadzip.cfm, under "Personal Income (State and Local)", select CAINC30: Economic Profile by County, then download. Data can also be directly downloaded using  https://apps.bea.gov/regional/zip/CAINC30.zip. A copy of the data is provided as part of this archive. The data are in the public domain. Datafile:  `CAINC30__ALL_AREAS_1969_2018.csv`
- The paper uses IPUMS Terra data (Ruggles et al, 2018). IPUMS-Terra does not allow for redistribution, except for the purpose of replication archives. Permissions as per https://terra.ipums.org/citation have been obtained, and are documented within the "data/IPUMS-terra" folder. Datafile: `data/raw/ipums_terra_2018.dta`
- The paper uses data from the World Values Survey Wave 6 (Inglehart et al, 2019). Data is subject to a redistribution restriction, but can be freely downloaded from http://www.worldvaluessurvey.org/WVSDocumentationWV6.jsp. Choose `WV6_Data_Stata_v20180912`, fill out the registration form, including a brief description of the project, and agree to the conditions of use. Note: "the data files themselves are not redistributed" and other conditions. Save the file in the directory `data/raw`. Datafile: `data/raw/WV6_Data_Stata_v20180912.dta` (not provided)
- The data for this project (DESE, 2019) are confidential, but may be obtained with Data Use Agreements with the Massachusetts Department of Elementary and Secondary Education (DESE). Researchers interested in access to the data may contact [NAME] at [EMAIL], also see www.doe.mass.edu/research/contact.html. It can take some months to negotiate data use agreements and gain access to the data. The author will assist with any reasonable replication attempts for two years following publication.
- All the results in the paper use confidential microdata from the U.S. Census Bureau. To gain access to the Census microdata, follow the directions here on how to write a proposal for access to the data via a Federal Statistical Research Data Center: https://www.census.gov/ces/rdcresearch/howtoapply.html. You must request the following datasets in your proposal: 1. Longitudinal Business Database (LBD), 2002 and 2007, 2. Foreign Trade Database – Import (IMP), 2002 and 2007

# Dataset list

<!---
In some cases, authors will provide one dataset (file) per data source, and the code to combine them. In others, in particular when data access might be restrictive, the replication package may only include derived/analysis data. Every file should be described. This can be provided as a Excel/CSV table, or in the table below.
-->

| Data file | Source | Notes    |Provided |
|-----------|--------|----------|---------|
| `data/raw/lbd.dta` | LBD | Confidential | No |
| `data/raw/terra.dta` | IPUMS Terra | As per terms of use | Yes |
| `data/derived/regression_input.dta`| All listed | Combines multiple data sources, serves as input for Table 2, 3 and Figure 5. | Yes |


# Computational requirements

<!---
In general, the specific computer code used to generate the results in the article will be within the repository that also contains this README. However, other computational requirements - shared libraries or code packages, required software, specific computing hardware - may be important, and is always useful, for the goal of replication. Some example text follows. 
-->
### Software requirements

<!---
List all of the software requirements, up to and including any operating system requirements, for the entire set of code. It is suggested to distribute most dependencies together with the replication package if allowed, in particular if sourced from unversioned code repositories, Github repos, and personal webpages. In all cases, list the version *you* used. 
-->

- Stata (code was last run with version 15)
  - `estout` (as of 2018-05-12)
  - `rdrobust` (as of 2019-01-05)
  - the program "`0_setup.do`" will install all dependencies locally, and should be run once.
- Python 3.6.4
  - `pandas` 0.24.2
  - `numpy` 1.16.4
  - the file "`requirements.txt`" lists these dependencies, please run "`pip install - r requirements.txt`" as the first step. See [https://pip.readthedocs.io/en/1.1/requirements.html](https://pip.readthedocs.io/en/1.1/requirements.html) for further instructions on using the "`requirements.txt`" file.
- Intel Fortran Compiler version 20200104
- Matlab (code was run with Matlab Release 2018a)
- R 3.4.3
  - `tidyr` (0.8.3)
  - `rdrobust` (0.99.4)
  - the file "`0_setup.R`" will install all dependencies (latest version), and should be run once prior to running other programs.

Portions of the code use bash scripting, which may require Linux.

Portions of the code use Powershell scripting, which may require Windows 10 or higher.

### Memory and runtime requirements

<!---
Memory and compute-time requirements may also be relevant or even critical. Some example text follows. It may be useful to break this out by Table/Figure/section of processing. For instance, some estimation routines might run for weeks, but data prep and creating figures might only take a few minutes.
-->

#### Summary

Approximate time needed to reproduce the analyses on a standard (CURRENT YEAR) desktop machine: 9 hours

#### Details

The code was last run on a **4-core Intel-based laptop with MacOS version 10.14.4**. 

Portions of the code were last run on a **32-core Intel server with 1024 GB of RAM, 12 TB of fast local storage**. Computation took 734 hours. 

Portions of the code were last run on a **12-node AWS R3 cluster, consuming 20,000 core-hours**.  


# Description of programs/code

<!---
Give a high-level overview of the program files and their purpose. Remove redundant/ obsolete files from the Replication archive.
-->

- Programs in `programs/ 01_dataprep` will extract and reformat all datasets referenced above. The file `programs/01_dataprep/master.do` will run them all.
- Programs in `programs/02_analysis` generate all tables and figures in the main body of the article. The program `programs/02_analysis/master.do` will run them all. Each program called from `master.do` identifies the table or figure it creates (e.g., `05_table5.do`).  Output files are called appropriate names (`table5.tex`, `figure12.png`) and should be easy to correlate with the manuscript.
- Programs in `programs/03_appendix` will generate all tables and figures  in the online appendix. The program `programs/03_appendix/master - appendix.do` will run them all. 
- Ado files have been stored in `programs/ado` and the `master.do` files set the ADO directories appropriately. 
- The program `programs/00_setup.do` will populate the `programs/ado` directory with updated ado packages, but for purposes of exact reproduction, this is not needed. The file `programs/00_setup.log` identifies the versions as they were last updated.
- The program `programs/config.do` contains parameters used by all programs, including a random seed. Note that the random seed is set once for each of the two sequences (in `02_analysis` and `03_appendix`). If running in any order other than the one outlined below, your results may differ.

### (Optional, but recommended) License for Code

The code is licensed under a MIT/BSD/GPL/Creative Commons license. See [LICENSE.txt](LICENSE.txt) for details.

